README.md, before:

# Tetrix - A Swift Tetris Implementation

![CI](https://github.com/euxaristia/Tetrix/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)

A complete Tetris game implementation written from scratch in Swift using SDL2. Works on Linux and macOS.

## Features

- All 7 classic Tetromino pieces (I, O, T, S, Z, J, L)
- Smooth piece movement and rotation
- Line clearing with scoring
- Level progression (speed increases every 10 lines)
- Hard drop functionality
- Next piece preview
- Pause/Resume functionality
- Game over detection
- Beautiful windowed interface with SDL2

## Game Controls

- **A / Left Arrow (←)**: Move piece left
- **D / Right Arrow (→)**: Move piece right
- **S / Down Arrow (↓)**: Soft drop (move down faster)
- **W / Up Arrow (↑)**: Rotate piece clockwise
- **Space**: Hard drop (instantly drop to bottom)
- **P**: Pause/Resume the game
- **Q**: Quit
- **R**: Restart (when game over)

## Scoring System

- Single line: 100 × level
- Double lines: 300 × level
- Triple lines: 500 × level
- Tetris (4 lines): 800 × level
- Hard drop: 2 points per cell dropped

## Level System

- Starting level: 1
- Level increases every 10 lines cleared
- Game speed increases with each level

## Installation

### Linux (Arch/CachyOS)

Install SDL2 development libraries:
```bash
sudo pacman -S sdl2 sdl2_ttf
```

### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)

```bash
sudo apt-get install libsdl2-dev libsdl2-ttf-dev
```

### macOS

```bash
brew install sdl2 sdl2_ttf
```

## Running the Game

```bash
swift run
```

Or build and run:
```bash
swift build
./.build/debug/Tetrix
```

## Requirements

- Swift 5.9+
- SDL2 development libraries
- SDL2_ttf (optional, for text rendering - game works without it)

## Project Structure

- `main.swift`: Application entry point
- `SDL2Game.swift`: SDL2 game loop, rendering, and input handling
- `Position.swift`: Coordinate system for board positions
- `Tetromino.swift`: Tetromino piece definitions and rotations
- `GameBoard.swift`: Game board logic and line clearing
- `TetrisEngine.swift`: Main game engine and state management
- `Sources/CSDL2/`: SDL2 C module wrapper

## Notes

- The game uses SDL2 for cross-platform windowed graphics
- Text rendering requires SDL2_ttf, but the game will run without it (text just won't display)
- The game runs at 60 FPS with VSync enabled

## License

This is a personal project implementation of Tetris.

Commit message:

Update README and refactor game code to transition from SDL2 to SDL3. Adjust installation instructions for Windows, Linux, and macOS. Remove SDL2Game class and update TetrisMusic for SDL3 audio handling. Clean up CSDL2 references.

README.md, after:

# Tetrix - A Swift Tetris Implementation

![CI](https://github.com/euxaristia/Tetrix/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)

A complete Tetris game implementation written from scratch in Swift using SDL3. Works on Windows, Linux and macOS.

## Features

- All 7 classic Tetromino pieces (I, O, T, S, Z, J, L)
- Smooth piece movement and rotation
- Line clearing with scoring
- Level progression (speed increases every 10 lines)
- Hard drop functionality
- Next piece preview
- Pause/Resume functionality
- Game over detection
- Beautiful windowed interface with SDL3

## Game Controls

- **A / Left Arrow (←)**: Move piece left
- **D / Right Arrow (→)**: Move piece right
- **S / Down Arrow (↓)**: Soft drop (move down faster)
- **W / Up Arrow (↑)**: Rotate piece clockwise
- **Space**: Hard drop (instantly drop to bottom)
- **P**: Pause/Resume the game
- **Q**: Quit
- **R**: Restart (when game over)

## Scoring System

- Single line: 100 × level
- Double lines: 300 × level
- Triple lines: 500 × level
- Tetris (4 lines): 800 × level
- Hard drop: 2 points per cell dropped

## Level System

- Starting level: 1
- Level increases every 10 lines cleared
- Game speed increases with each level

## Installation

### Windows

SDL3 libraries (`SDL3.dll` and `SDL3_ttf.dll`) and import libraries (`SDL3.lib` and `SDL3_ttf.lib`) are included in the project.

### Linux (Arch/CachyOS)

Install SDL3 development libraries:
```bash
sudo pacman -S sdl3 sdl3_ttf
```

### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)

```bash
sudo apt-get install libsdl3-dev libsdl3-ttf-dev
```

### macOS

```bash
brew install sdl3 sdl3_ttf
```

## Running the Game

```bash
swift run
```

Or build and run:
```bash
swift build
./.build/debug/Tetrix
```

## Requirements

- Swift 5.9+
- SDL3 development libraries
- SDL3_ttf (for text rendering)

## Project Structure

- `main.swift`: Application entry point
- `SDL3Game.swift`: SDL3 game loop, rendering, and input handling
- `Position.swift`: Coordinate system for board positions
- `Tetromino.swift`: Tetromino piece definitions and rotations
- `GameBoard.swift`: Game board logic and line clearing
- `TetrisEngine.swift`: Main game engine and state management
- `TetrisMusic.swift`: Background music implementation
- `Sources/CSDL3/`: SDL3 C module wrapper

## Notes

- The game uses SDL3 for cross-platform windowed graphics
- Text rendering requires SDL3_ttf
- The game runs at 60 FPS
- Supports gamepad/controller input

## License

This is a personal project implementation of Tetris.
